# Semantic Versioning Specification V1

It was released in September 2011. It specifies the following conditions.

Software using Semantic Versioning must declare a public api. This api could be declared in the code itself or exist strictly in documentation. However it is done, it should be precise and comprehensive.

Once a versioned package has been released, the contents of that version cannot be modified. Any modifications must be released as a new version.

A normal version should be of the form `major.minor.patch`, where `major`, `minor` and `patch` are non-negative integers, each element is incremented by one at a time.

If there is **backward compatible bug fix**, `patch` version must be incremented.

If there is a **backward compatible functionality added or new functionality is added or improvements are made to private code**, `minor` version must be incremented and `patch` must be reset to `0`.

If there is a **backward incompatible change**, `major` version must be incremented and `minor` and `patch` must be reset to `0`.

Major version `0` is for initial development. At this point the public should not be considered stable and may change drastically.

Version `1.0.0` marks the first public release.

A pre-release version is used to denote that the version is unstable and may not satisfy the intended compatibility. It has lower precedence than its associated normal version.

A pre-release version may be denoted by appending a hyphen and a series of dot separated identifiers immediately following the `patch` version. These identifiers can include ascii alphanumeric characters and hyphens and cannot be empty. For example, `1.0.0-alpha`, `1.0.0-alpha.1`, `1.0.0-0.3.7`, `1.0.0-x.7.z.92`, `1.0.0-x-y-z.--`.

## SemVerTag
^semver-tag

This sub specification was is used to add support for tools if you use a version control system like git. It specifies that,

When tagging releases in a version control system, the tag name must be started with `v`. For example, `v1.2.3`

The first version released that is semver compliant must be tagged `semver`. This allows pre-existing projects to introduce semver compliance at any point and aslo indicate the same to automated tools reading through the history.

## References

- https://semver.org/spec/v1.0.0.html
- https://github.com/semver/semver/releases
