---
status: done
---

# Semantic Versioning Specification V2

It was released in June 2013.

## Whats new

- Version identifiers cannot have leading zeros.
- If a functionality is marked deprecated, this change is considered under minor version.
- [`semver-tag`](/semver/v1#^semver-tag) was removed.
- Precedence rules were added
- Build metadata was added
- Backus–Naur Form grammar was added

## Specification

It specifies the following conditions.

Software using Semantic Versioning must declare a public api. This api could be declared in the code itself or exist strictly in documentation. However it is done, it should be precise and comprehensive.

Once a versioned package has been released, the contents of that version cannot be modified. Any modifications must be released as a new version.

A normal version should be of the form `major.minor.patch`, where `major`, `minor` and `patch` are non-negative integers, cannot contain leading zeros and each element is incremented by one at a time.

If there is **backward compatible bug fix**, `patch` version must be incremented.

If there is a **backward compatible functionality added or a functionality is marked deprecated in the public api** or **new functionality added or improvements are made to private code**, `minor` version must be incremented and `patch` must be reset to `0`.

If there is a **backward incompatible change**, `major` version must be incremented and `minor` and `patch` must be reset to `0`.

Major version `0` is for initial development. At this point the public should not be considered stable and may change drastically.

Version `1.0.0` marks the first public release.

A pre-release version is used to denote that the version is unstable and may not satisfy the intended compatibility. It has lower precedence than its associated normal version.

A pre-release version may be denoted by appending a hyphen and a series of dot separated identifiers immediately following the `patch` version. These identifiers can include ascii alphanumeric characters and hyphens and cannot be empty. Numeric identifiers must not include leading zeros. For example, `1.0.0-alpha`, `1.0.0-alpha.1`, `1.0.0-0.3.7`, `1.0.0-x.7.z.92`, `1.0.0-x-y-z.--`.

Build metadata can be added to the version. It can be used to denote the build conditions. Build metadata doesn't affect the precedence.

Build metadata is denoted by appending a plus sign and a series of dot separated identifiers immediately following the `patch` or `pre-release` version if specified. These identifiers can include ascii alphanumeric characters and hyphens and cannot be empty. For example, `1.0.0-alpha+001`, `1.0.0+20130313144700`, `1.0.0-beta+exp.sha.5114f85`, `1.0.0+21AF26D3----117B344092BD`.

### Precedence Rules

Precedence is calculated by separating the version into `major`, `minor`, `patch` and `pre-release` identifiers and compairing them in that order. Build metadata is not considered for precedence.

Precedence is determined by the first difference when comparing each of these identifiers from left to right as follows. 

`major`, `minor` and `patch` versions are compared numerically.

When `major`, `minor` and `patch` are equal, a `pre-release` version is has lower precedence than its normal version. Otherwise precendence is calculated by compairing each identifier in `pre-release` version by following rules:

- Identifiers consisting of only digits are compared numerically.
- Identifiers with letters or hyphens are compared lexically in ASCII sort order.
- Numeric identifiers always have lower precedence than non-numeric identifiers.
- A larger set of pre-release fields has a higher precedence than a smaller set, if all of the preceding identifiers are equal.

For example, `1.0.0-alpha` < `1.0.0-alpha.1` < `1.0.0-alpha.beta` < `1.0.0-beta` < `1.0.0-beta.2` < `1.0.0-beta.11` < `1.0.0-rc.1 < 1.0.0`.

##

## References

- https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html
- https://github.com/semver/semver/releases
- https://github.com/semver/semver/issues/231
